we've created a world that's very
dangerous right now I think we are on
the brink of a possible Extinction deep
October right here one of the world's
biggest experts on health Wellness Time
magazine's one of the top 100 icons of
the centuries also written 93 books when
you look at the direction of travel as a
civilization what advice do we need now
what agree stress Humanities problems
come from our inability to sit quietly
and do nothing
you're always doing doing doing we have
human doings we're not human beings
anymore take some time every day to be
unoccupied ask yourself who am I what do
I want and what is my purpose people
don't ask these questions they only know
that they suffer and they want an
immediate solution which is you know
something like a antidepressant and
that's what we've created
every experience shapes our biology when
you look at the situation do you see an
adversity or an opportunity how is this
determined by your childhood if your
parents were complaining condemning
criticizing playing the victim you will
see every situation as an adversity can
be changed yes how there are actually
many studies on what is called the
happiness equation number one is
this is your 93rd book if you were to
write one last book what would be the
Top Line message I hate to use this word
it's misinterpreted but the title would
be
before this episode starts I have a
small favor to ask from you two months
ago 74 of people that watch this channel
didn't subscribe we're now down to 69 my
goal is 50 so if you've ever liked any
of the videos we've posted if you like
this channel can you do me a quick favor
and hit the Subscribe button it helps
this channel more than you know and the
bigger the channel gets as you've seen
the bigger the guests get thank you and
enjoy this episode
[Music]
as I was reading through
your work a certain word came up over
and over again and it was the word
purpose
um so I wanted to start this really by
asking you
what is your purpose what mission are
you on you've written I'm hearing this
is your 93rd book
if there is an umbrella
that one could call your purpose what
would it be
for the last uh
35 years
I've used our non-profit
Foundation Chopra foundation with the
the mission statement of reaching a
critical mass of people
in my mind a billion people
per personal and social transformation
for a more peaceful just sustainable
healthier and joyful world so those
words are very carefully chosen peaceful
sustainable healthier
just
and joyful
so everything
is under that umbrella going back to the
start of your story
um
what do I need to you know that profound
purpose that mission you've been on for
the last 30 plus years
where does that stem from what's the
earliest sort of domino that fell to put
you on course to
to pursue that as your life's work
i s I trained in Internal Medicine and
then Endocrinology which is a study of
hormones
and then I went on to
study neuroscience and
neuroendocrinology I saw the
relationship
between what happens in our
consciousness
and particularly emotions
and how that affects our biology as a
physician I was
always impressed by how giving
information to a patient affected their
metabolism
you know if I told somebody you had
cancer just the word cancer you could
see immediately their blood pressure go
up
the heart rate speed up their platelets
get sticky
and you know a whole Cascade of events
in their biology which was
essentially inflammation and propensity
to disease just hearing bad news and
interpreting it and having an emotional
response to it
I remember giving that nurse to a
patient and then immediately realizing
that I'd made a mistake I was reading
the wrong chart
so I immediately apologized and I saw
his biology changed
in a moment
and now
you know 40 years later we realized that
every experience you have every
experience doesn't matter what the
experiences could be
emotional but it could be food it could
be sleep it could be exercise it could
be
breathing or yoga but right now this
conversation you know we're
having this conversation and you and I
are exchanging information
in our frontal cortex of the brain and
genes are going on to facilitate the
neural networks
that make this happen but then there are
people listening to us maybe hundreds of
thousands their brains are being
activated
so I realized that you know you couldn't
localize the mind you know if you ask a
neuroscientist
conventional neuroscientists where is
the mind
they'll point to their brain but the
brain only has the neural correlates of
the Mind the Mind itself you can't
localize it's both embodied
it's a relational and embodied process
so you know the mind doesn't exist by
itself it exists in relationship to
other Minds
so it's relational
and embodied in the brain but in your
biology and it regulates the flow of
energy and information in our bodies and
in the ecosystem of relationships
now
if
our identity fundamental identity which
is
that of the separate self
is which is a socially induced
hallucination in my opinion because the
separate self doesn't exist period
but that
hallucination or that idea of the
separate self
creates anxiety
it also creates anger because of trauma
in the past
so anger is nothing but
remembering the memory of trauma
hostility is the desire to get even
anxieties the anticipation of trauma
again in the future
blaming yourself is guilt and guilt
leads to humiliation humiliation and the
combination of everything I've said
leads to depression which is the number
one pandemic of our time not kovid
depression stress hostility resentment
that causes inflammation so you know
suddenly I had this idea
that if we went back to some of the
wisdom traditions of the world
that said our essential nature is
as the Buddhists say inter beingness
we are you know famous statement of
technotron we are inter beings that
interrise in the inter isness there's no
isolated self
and but that isolated fearful self has
created the trauma
that we see in the world that that
actually manifests as War terrorism ego
destruction greed leaders who are only
interested in power mongering influence
peddling cronyism corruption and their
own self-interest
so we've created a world that's that's
actually
um
pretty dangerous right now and
I thought in my naive Day about
35 40 years ago
if we had something that could actually
collectively
shift Consciousness and actually I was
one of the founders of an association
called Alliance for a new Humanity
and we had people from Civil Society
lawyers attorneys
people from the United Nations with this
idea that we could reach a critical mass
of people
for a more peaceful just sustainable
healthier and joyful world
but even the organization faltered
because there was Schism within the
organization you know people
again power mongering and fighting
within the organization for dominance or
or you know leadership in a very selfish
way so the organization
folded
it didn't go anywhere I decided to
continue on my own
so when you talk about this separated
self you're referring to Identity I'm
referring to identity identity which is
you know I did our crisis today and has
been of identity
an identity on a personal level is this
the person you know this story that I
tell myself about who I am and that I
accept about myself correct and for a
country they have their own identity
they accept that they are the United
States of America and we are this and
this is who we are correct and then that
causes separation and a disconnectedness
you talked about how you created an
organization to try and combat this and
get to that critical mass and then the
organization itself failed which makes
me think is this not just innate in
humans that we are
greedy selfish powermongering corrupt
at our core it's been our Evolution
since hunter-gatherer times
and it got worse in the Industrial Age
and then
I think
um it got even worse with
within the wars you know the first world
war second world war but if you read
history the history is one of violence
ever since human beings have existed
other species are violin too but not
not in the way we are for power or for
money
or for
um this idea of uh you know extreme
nationalism which is a form of tribalism
in my opinion or the whole history of
colonialism is just that and now we've
reached a point with the information age
where
you know it's kind of
nothing is secret anymore and yet
um
the intensity of what's happening in the
world look what's happening in Ukraine
or right now what's happening in
Pakistan or what's happening in India or
what's happening in Korea look at any
place in the world maybe you live a few
places like New Zealand or you know Bali
or a couple of places like that the rest
of the world is is actually in extreme
turmoil so we have medieval Minds
and modern capacities now that is not a
good combination a medieval mind
restricted to a little area in medieval
times
caused Havoc there but now
globally that medieval mind that tribal
mind and our modern capacities it's a
terrible combination
everybody everybody listening to this
now in some way is suffering yes in some
way yes everyone's suffering is slightly
different but if you zoom out far enough
it's pretty much all the same to some to
some degree yeah
um
if you had a you know a young person
come to you and they were I don't know
they don't even have to be young 16
years old maybe 30 maybe 45 and you had
to give them some broad advice on how to
suffer less for the remainder of their
life
what advice would you give them
you know
we've reached a stage in our Evolution
where people don't ask these questions
they only know that they suffer and they
want an immediate solution which is you
know something like an antidepressant or
whatever
and that's what we've created with the
materialistic interpretation of the
universe wisdom Traditions tell us we
suffer because in that fact in the
Eastern wisdom tradition we serve five
causes not knowing who we are number one
not knowing the nature of reality
no isolated self clinging and grasping
at experience which is ephemeral
you know
experiences ephemeral it's transient it
you can't catch it like regret or
it's experience you know if I ask you
you can't hold on to this experience if
I asked you what happened to your
childhood you say it's a dream but if I
asked you what happened to last night
it's a dream what happened to this
morning is a dream what happens to these
words by the time you hear them they
don't exist
and me trying to cling on to that so let
me try juggling on that then we also
recoil from that if it's unpleasant we
confuse ourselves with our ego identity
which is socially induced and we fear
death those are the five causes of
suffering so wisdom Traditions say you
have to figure out what is reality and
when you figure out what is reality and
you can't do that at 16 unless you're
being groomed you know in in wisdom
Traditions you were groomed
for wisdom
and that started
what we call self-education which is
what yoga is by the way yoga means Union
with the self
misinterpretation of yoga as this is
just the physical postures but the eight
limbs of yoga are all intended to find
your true self so there are principles
of social intelligence emotional
intelligence
physical posture breathing techniques
withdrawal of the senses focused
awareness meditation Transcendence
once you get to these last three
aspects of yoga Transcendence is the key
you find out who you really are the self
which knows the self not Bamboozled by
social constructs
so let's go through those five things
number one not doing reality reality is
not local it's infinite so so what do I
need to understand then to avoid that
form of suffering I need to understand
that it's not localized and therefore
that means that you are infinite
you're at one level I'm everything and
nothing and everything and nothing and
actually you experience love love not as
a sentiment but the in ineffable
interconnectedness with all that exists
people have those experiences with
psychedelics these days or you can
actually give somebody an experience
like that with even VR
because we are already in a VR number
two number two clinging grasping that
which is ungraspable every experience is
ungraspable so the awareness of an
experience is not the experience
the awareness of a thought is not a
thought
the awareness of a thought is
independent of the thought if you
identify with the awareness instead of
the thought which is like a cloud going
through the sky
you don't
either attach yourself to it or you
don't identify with it takes training
so you know and in the rig Veda let
Noble thoughts come to me from every
side because your thoughts are not your
production your thoughts are socially
constructed and there's there's recycle
through you and yet we identify with
them so number two is identifying with
that which is
ephemeral transient ungraspable number
three
on number two we so we need to
not attach not associate with thoughts
not associate with experiences in order
to be free you can associate with them
but you're not
attached or identified to them you can
associate with thoughts so if you've had
a trauma in your early life or something
or you've been through something not so
good or you've been dumped by your
boyfriend and then we would identify
with that and actually that
epigenetically by the way that's
intergenerational now we know that you
know in the Holocaust for example during
the invasion of the Netherlands
by Nazi Germany there were a lot of
there was famine amongst the Jews and
now three generations four generations
after that
the people's descendants who were
traumatized they have diabetes because
somewhere in their body there's a memory
of famine so they're holding on to
carbohydrates they have insulin
resistance Etc if you take a mouse and
you expose it to a smell that it likes
for example lavender
and then you give it to my electrical
shock
for Seven Generations the mice will be
fearful
of that particular smell I've been to a
cow Farm in Hawaii where they used to
have electrical wires as fences mild
electrical shocks now they don't have
the wires
but the descendants of those
cows that were traumatized they won't
cross over that fence or they won't
cross over where the Border was
so it's it's this is another mystery
where is memory most people if you ask
them where is memory they'll point to
the brain if I ask you what did you have
for breakfast today
what did you have for breakfast uh
that's a really good question I had a
salad okay with some chicken so no where
was that memory before I asked you the
question there's nowhere in the brain
you can point out
that memory was but as soon as I ask you
the question the neural networks go fire
but where is the memory Retreat from the
only places Consciousness but
Consciousness can't be localized you
know when people get brain injuries car
crashes they lose their memory sometimes
yeah so radios damaged you don't listen
to the music doesn't that prove that
it's in the brain somewhere
is is the is Shakespeare in in on your
movie screen or your television set
is is actually anything you read in the
book is the author in the book
it's that you know you're confused the
instrument with the user of the
instrument the fault of the instrument
is not a reflection on the user of the
instrument
Shakespeare nice would live on like the
the CD or like these that's really okay
yeah but where is that mind
that localized in the CD
in the brain somewhere isn't it no the
brain is just like your CD said okay
what happens in the brain is called the
neural correlates of experience nce this
as I said earlier there's no experience
in the brain
that's where you can put a knife through
it the brain has no self-awareness
when you think about some of these um
neurological diseases like dementia
Alzheimer's
what does that present evidence for in
terms of
I mean I guess a lot of people aren't
really clear at the moment where where
Alzheimer's and Dementia starts or
what's called Alzheimer's now we know is
due to accumulation
of a substance called amyloid in the
brain
so about there are 40 genes that
predispose you to force
Alzheimer's or which three are probably
fully penetrant which means they predict
the disease because that's genetic
determinism
the rest are related to things like lack
of sleep or inflammation
or stress or a diet that causes
inflammation or lack of unregulated
biological rhythms
Etc so there are identifiable causes for
Alzheimer's but again Alzheimer's is and
these neurological diseases all diseases
like that
we're talking about two different things
we're talking about Consciousness is a
fundamental reality and then we're
talking about the instrument that we
call the brain now
I should say to you though that what I'm
saying is not necessarily
accepted by mainstream science but
mainstream science cannot answer the
hard problem of Consciousness or where
experience happens and is not interested
you know right now
the two most promising things in medical
science well there are three or four are
you know one is what we call Gene
editing
crispr so you'll be able to cut in base
genes soon the way you cut and paste
emails
but that'll affect maybe five six
percent of genetic determinism the rest
is lifestyle epigenetics
so that's where we are in medical
science and with machine learning in
artificial intelligence I think we'll be
able to predict disease and make it more
everything will be more personalized
predictable preventable in the future
but we are talking about two different
things right now we're talking about
biology
and we're talking about the heart
problem of Consciousness we'll get on to
the pillars of well-being um wanted to
finish those five points of suffering
yes we can call the five clacias glacias
yeah in Sanskrit
so that we were number three right
recoiling from
experiences that we interpret as
unpleasant
but see once again the awareness of the
experience is not the experience so once
you can observe the experience you're
free of the experience
you don't identify with the experience
oh that's an interesting thought passing
by the screen of my Consciousness like a
cloud in the sky I'm not the cloud I'm
the sky
I'm not this I'm not the play on the
screen on the screen
so an example would be so the sentence
is recoiling from experiences that
unpleasant they're unpleasant so give me
an example someone in my life someone in
my family dies yeah so you obviously are
scared right because you identify with
the experience but everybody dies
I mean trillions of people have died
you're not the only one who's going to
die and then what dies is another
mystery the body dies
the seeds of memory
recycle
because what is memory but it's
information
and that's recycled
through Collective Consciousness as soon
as you're born you're already born into
an interpreted world a world with memory
a world with imagination a world with
non-local Consciousness that is now
localizing through your brain as this
process that you call the body
the body mind is a process in
consciousness
Consciousness itself is not subject to
time
only you know time is an experience we
have as soon as we have subject objects
split so as soon as there's
subject object split which is artificial
in nature is the unified activity
then time is Born the experience of time
is born so in your life if someone
dies God forbid
um do you suffer you grieve which is a
natural process and it has a life cycle
you don't hold on to it in fact you
embrace it
you embrace the anytime you recoil
or deny
resistance creates even more stress so
what we call stress is resistance to
existence
in the moment
okay if you don't resist experience in
the moment
you know it's passing by
so something really bad happens at work
I get a really bad you know my boss
tells me I'm fired
the mindset required to ever avoid
suffering in that case is to
take the news it's not a mindset it's a
it's a step in awareness
the awareness of the mind is not the
mind
who is it that or what is it that knows
a thought
that is what you need to shift to okay
once you shift from
the experience to the awareness in which
the experience is happening
you're independent of it and that's what
actually those eight limbs of yoga are
about it's a process
a shift in identity we started with that
a shift in identity
from your assumed self to your
fundamental self
which is infinite which is without cause
which is not subject to birth and death
which is spaceless timeless
incomprehensible infinite irreducible
and fundamental
it feels almost like I'm stepping out of
myself and looking at myself correct
looking at the projection of projection
of myself we're looking at the
projection of yourself
she's really looking at your avatar and
it's very hard to do because we we are
increasingly becoming avatars especially
with things like social media yeah yeah
we've been we're being reinforced like
you know I have two million followers or
a million followers about 500 000
followers they're following my avatar so
we don't know who we are you're confused
yourself with the Avatar and the battle
is all between Avatar's wanting
importance how does one
resign from that battle and take back my
peace actually the opposite of that is
creativity
the creativity is the opposite of
determinism
if you don't want to be a biological
robot or an algorithm which is what we
are now we are biological algorithms
biological robots and that's by the way
part of our Evolution it's not something
all animals
but the animals have an advantage they
live in the present moment but you and I
have an imagination that can see into
the future that can even
look at death you know as the
culmination of this life experience we
regret the past we anticipate the future
we're never in the present when this is
the only place we are right now is the
present there is no way to escape it but
in our imagination we escape it so the
worst use of imagination is stress the
best use of imagination is creativity
creativity is a disruption in the
algorithm it's a discontinuity
fundamental creativity not you know
usual Innovation like iPhone 13 instead
of iPhone 12 with a better camera that's
not what creativity is creativity is a
death and a resurrection it's a death of
context meaning relationship and story
and a new
meaning
relationship and story whether it's
that's fundamental creativity that's
Einstein coming up with the theory of
relativity or the
Quantum physicists breaking every rule
that we knew in Newtonian physics or a
great piece of art Beethoven Swift these
are original original creativity is a
disruption in the algorithm to to decide
to provide Avatar my avatar getting into
this sort of Avatar wall with a with
other avatars my antidote to that is my
own creativity your own creativity you
know every moment you have a choice
to repeat the past or be a pioneer of
creativity of the future
and that happens by the way it happens
individually it happens collectively we
change World Views you know the world is
not flat anymore you know the ground is
not stationary anymore you know the
world is not Material anymore every
technology that you use is based on the
new idea that the essential nature of
the physical world is it's not physical
I could see you as you really are I'd
see a huge emptiness with a few
scattered dots and spots and some random
electrical discharges and at the most
fundamental level There Are No
Boundaries boundaries are perceptual so
when we experience the spiritual ecstasy
which is ineffable
There Are No Boundaries that's why
people in near-death experience people
with psychedelic experience people with
Peak experiences athletes musical
performance
any any break from ordinary reality
is ineffable
and healing actually that's why at the
recent Resurgence in psychedelics is
very interesting because
you know it it takes you away from
your identity of being squeezed into the
volume of a body in the span of a
lifetime
and point number four the five points of
suffering Point number four point number
four confusing your selfie with yourself
your ego identity we've talked about
that and number five is death death but
all of them have one solution
first one find out who you are
how does one find out who they are
Transcendence
there's no here's another thing there's
no system of thought
no system of thought religion philosophy
or science that will get you
into knowing true reality because
systems of thought are just that systems
of thought what is it that gives rise to
thought
that is what you won't do no and that's
been the Eternal Quest in spiritual
Traditions I'm not talking about
religious Dogma or ideology but there
you know these days is very fashionable
for people to say I'm not religious but
I'm spiritual it means the same thing
when you have a spiritual experience
number one Transcendence you find your
identity beyond space and time
number two emergence of platonic values
like truth goodness Beauty Harmony named
after Plato or love compassion Joy
Equanimity and number three loss of the
fear of death that's Jesus that's
Muhammad that's Ruby that's Buddha
that's every luminary that you have can
study since
people created systems of thought
so how does what's the easiest way to
track you know there's someone listening
to this right now they are driving up
the motorway they're a lorry driver take
some time every day
to be unoccupied even spiritual Pursuit
is an occupation
so take a little bit of you know what I
think it was Kafka or somebody who said
all of human problem Humanities problems
come from our inability to sit quietly
and do nothing
we'd rather electrocute ourselves we're
always doing doing doing we have human
doings we're not human beings anymore
so if I take some I I pull over the the
Lorry that I'm driving up the motorway
and I said you know what Deepak told me
take some time for myself so I sit in
the Lorry for 15 minutes every day
how is that going to help me to
transcend
it starts to process we begin to ask
yourself
who am I
reflect on this these questions every
day who am I
what do I want
what is my purpose what am I grateful
for
and who am I
without these constructs
it's it's a big mystery right Who You
Are
ultimately you realize
you're the awareness in which all
experience happens
but you're not the experience the
experiences in time you are not in time
and that this requires a different kind
of education it's not part of our
culture
it used to be part of cultures you know
if you read Plato and the Republic and
you'll see that you know this was part
of every culture
but it was a few luminaries people
romanticize even about this in India's
spiritual country well India's been
violent forever
a few luminaries the sages of the
upanishad and we have romance around the
Greek culture you know Bob you know the
Greeks were the most civilized in the
world well yes Socrates and permanent
ideas and you know Pythagoras and I can
name a few but the rest of the country
even in those times
you know they had slavery they had
sexism they had
these the the source of the Olympics
where they used to sacrifice
humans and you know we're still
performing it even in our days we're
still repeating that cycle with the what
do you call cheerleaders the the Virgin
vessels of the past
we haven't changed actually much
what else in terms of starting your day
like daily habits so you talk about
sleep as being incredibly important here
are the the daily habits um number one
is sleep now we know by the way that
lack of sleep is the number one
predictor of premature death from
cardiovascular disease lack of sleep is
also predictor of Alzheimer's lack of
sleep interferes with their creativity
lack of sleep causes inflammation so
that's for sure
number one number two uh I think is any
practice that quietens the Mind
meditation reflection contemplation
sitting quietly watching your breath ETC
number three is exercise number four is
Mind Body coordination as in that's
different than regular exercise yoga
practice
and martial arts breathing practices Tai
Chi Qigong they actually activate a
different part of your nervous system
which is the parasympathetic nervous
system which
it causes self-regulation in the body so
it's not just exercise it's you know
something that puts mind and body
together even gymnastics or
things like Judo and I mentioned martial
arts but yoga is my practice
uh then emotionals your emotional and
physical environment your social
environment because we live as social
beings so you know if you're if you're
you have toxic relationships it's going
to cause physical toxicity
um then nutrition we now know that you
know that food that causes inflammation
refined manufactured processed food with
chemicals antibiotics hormones
insecticides pesticides it's poison it's
like putting poison day putting Agent
Orange in your body so organic food farm
to table maximum diversity or
plant-based Foods now we know a lot
about micronutrients we know about
biological rhythms
But ultimately I think spiritual
experience is very important because no
matter what you do no matter what you do
no matter how healthy you are there is
old age
there is infirmity and there is death
so unless you face those bright head-on
when you are healthy not when you're in
a crisis not when somebody dies in your
family then everybody panics
okay I had a crisis in my life
when I was six years old you know my
father was in England he was
training to be a cardiologist I was
living in my grandfather
and one day we got a telegram that my
father had passed all his exams he was
now a fellow of the Royal College of
Physicians big deal in those days we got
a telegram my grandfather wanted to
celebrate so he took me and my little
brother to a carnival then to a to a
movie I even remembered the movie
Alibaba and the 40 thieves and then we
went to a fancy restaurant and then in
the middle of the night he died
and they took him to for cremation
brought his ashes back in a little jar
about the size of this coffee cup a
little bigger and one of my uncles said
what happened yesterday he was taking
the kids to a carnival and today is a
bunch of Ashes
my little brother who'd later became the
dean of education at Harvard Medical
School he was four years old he started
to lose his skin his skin started
peeling off I went into a panic and you
know my uncles took my brother to every
position they couldn't find the
diagnosis till somebody said
you know he's missing his parents he's
feeling vulnerable he's losing his skin
shedding his skin because he's that's a
metaphor for his vulnerability
he'll be fine when his parents come back
and sure enough as soon as they came my
brother was healed so at six years I had
a crisis existential crisis went on to
become a doctor
but what happens you go to medical
school the first thing you see is
is uh is a corpse you're supposed to
understand Life by dissecting a body you
know it's the way we are trained you've
started off by looking at a human being
as an anatomical structure rather than a
process in consciousness
so it took me a long time you know going
through medical school training myself
going through crises smoking addictive
behavior alcohol
I remember
um res resuscitating a patient putting a
pacemaker putting him on a respirator
and then going outside to smoke a
cigarette
and then you know I was disgusted with
myself
I threw away my cigarette that evening I
threw away the scotch
and I decided that I want to understand
who am I
it's almost like in that moment you
observed someone that was so full of
life just moments earlier
turn into as you said Ash is in a jar
scattered in the Wind
and you go where is the
where is my granddad yeah
he's not local no look
right which is our essential nature
actually
to be non-localists to be connected with
all that is
an Indian poetry and Poets in general
John William Blake you know we are led
to believe a lie when we see with and
not through the eye that was born in the
night to perish in the night while the
soul slept in beams of light so when we
looked through the conditioned mind
that's a lie when you look beyond the
conditioned mind
that is light
do you think you'd be doing the work you
are today if your granddad hadn't passed
away when you were six in their
circumstances
I think that was a very pivotal moment
at six years of age existential crisis
most people don't have that at the age
of six because it brought you a bunch of
questions didn't it really profound
questions about the nature of life and
existence existence and and love and
tigor Indian poet
love is not a sentiment it's the
ultimate truth at the heart of creation
that you and the other are the same
being in different uniforms
is it do you have a Ponder if some of
your beliefs are
if that moment really was pivotal that
some of your beliefs might have been a
way to justify your sadness
yeah denial is a way of justifying
sadness I don't think belief is
belief in many ways is a cover-up for
insecurity you know if I say do you
believe in electricity he said no I see
that
device that transistor that TV set
electricity gravity is my experience
so I don't believe in belief
but faith is something else faith is the
knowingness of the invisible
without which there is nothing visible
the invisible is the source of all
things visible
so when you when your day comes when my
day comes when we're no longer I'm
preparing for it right now you're
preparing for this in my tradition there
are four stages of Life first 25 years
they're called ashrams ashram is a place
to rest or that which you identify as
your home first 25 years education
second 25 years family
children Fame Fortune if you want third
25 years giving back and now I'm fourth
self-realization preparation for death
how does one prepare for death by
knowing and experiencing your non-local
self
what people would call spirituality or
death spiritual but authentic experience
I'm not talking about
Dogma or self-righteous morality or
jealousy with the Halo or cunning
hypocrisy we can all pretend to be
spiritual
but if you've had the experience when
you know yourself as non-local
then the unknown is the only place to be
the known as already happened it's a
prison
and what do you believe happens once you
die I think the dream continues
the dream continues in a different
frequency domain of Consciousness these
days actually if you look at some of the
theories of the universe mathematical
theories
current materialistic view is that the
visible universe is about 2 trillion
galaxies
706 trillion Stars uncountable trillions
of planets
based on that current estimate with the
James Webb Telescope and all this
our planet is not even a spec one grain
of sand in all the beaches of the world
so the other day I went to a beach
picked up a grain of sand and a breeze
game he drifted off and the beach didn't
notice that one grain was missing that's
planet Earth 2 trillion galaxies but I
recently interviewed
Caltech professor of physics Sean
Carroll who sits on the desk of Richard
Feynman one of the greatest physicists
of all time
Einstein sat at that desk for a while
Sean Carroll believes there are infinite
universes
infinite universes
it's incomprehensible the idea that
there are infinite universes
but I believe they are and that you and
I have
a a cosmic Journey
that is infinite and infinite means
infinite infinite is incomprehensible it
never ends
you change uniforms
you change experiences hopefully you
evolve like a spiraled staircase
but it's a never-ending Horizon does
that mean rank what people call
Reincarnation of some sort or is it even
people yeah but what is reincarnation
see everything recycles matter recycles
we agree energy resize because we agree
information recycles we agree
if Consciousness is what gives rise to
Energy Information and matter and energy
information matter or human constructs
for modes of awareness and consciousness
why would Consciousness not
recycle why would it be the only
exception it wouldn't be the same
Consciousness though would it it would
be bits of the No it's it's it's
a Consciousness with seeds yeah of
potential
manifestation seeds of Desire
and seeds of memory
now if you want to be totally you know I
want to use the
spiritual
language which is not fashionable but is
fashionable to Karma memory and desire
so karma is past experience
an interpretation of past experience
if you go to Starbucks have a cup of
coffee that's karma
now depending on your experience
you like it or not you decide to go back
to Starbucks or not to go to Starbucks
you go to whatever the other places and
get a cappuccino
so memory recycles as desire
and desire recycles as karma karma
simply means experience don't think of
it good bad
and this is the software or awareness
that recycles and evolves in Cosmic time
now this is the theory but you have to
experience it
so I asked you what did you have for
breakfast but then I could ask you do
you remember a happy episode from your
teenage years or your childhood
and immediately the memory comes where
was it not in your brain
you know I hadn't skated I learned
skating when I was eight years ice
skating I didn't skate for 30 years at
the age of 38 with my two little kids
Rockefeller Center Ice there picked up a
pair of skates
started to skate
every cell in my body including my brain
had recycled
a few million times where was that
memory of skating
big mystery quick word from one of our
sponsors I have to say I've been on a
bit of a journey with this brand because
when I started my business in new
territories when we first moved social
chain to the to New York City the first
place we went to was wework we moved
four of our team members out to New York
City and we built the business from
there
um I have to say there's something
magical about weworks I've spent the
last two or three weeks in LA in a wee
work and as you walk in the front door
every day it's almost like that sense of
community that sense of magic excitement
camaraderie is tangible and you don't
get that when you're working at home you
don't get that often when you're sat in
your bed on your laptop there's
something about getting out and getting
into a wee work that makes me feel a
sense of Entrepreneurship and and
creativity and building and the way that
we work to design both both in the way
that they offer subscriptions so that
you can work you know on demand but also
the the flexibility of the contracts
means that it's just the perfect place
for businesses to scale their companies
and if you haven't checked out where you
work and you want to you can go to
we.co CEO and there you can get 50 off
at trial Day At wework Close to You over
the last couple of how long maybe four
months I've been changing my diet shall
I say many of you have really been
paying attention to this podcast will
know why I've sat here with some
incredible Health experts and one of the
things that's really come through for me
which has caused a big change in my life
is the need for us to have these
superfoods these green Foods these
vegetables and then a company I love so
much and a company I'm an investor in
and then a company that sponsors this
podcast and I'm on the board of recently
announced a new product which absolutely
spoke to exactly where I was in my life
and that is heal and they announced
Daily Greens Daily Greens is a product
that contains 91 superfoods nutrients
and plant-based ingredients which helps
me meet that dietary requirement with
the convenience that hewell always
offers unfortunately it's only currently
available in the US but I hope
pray that it'll be with you guys in the
UK too so if you're in the US check it
out it's an incredible product I've been
having it here in La for the last couple
of weeks and it's a game changer what is
the thing that you believe to be true
that most people disagree with you on
right now my interpretation of what I
call Quantum healing a quantum mechanics
I wrote a book called Quantum healing in
1988 it was vilified
I reissued it a few years ago because
now we have science and I'm doing a book
with the quantum physicist at the moment
where I believe that our biology like
everything else is
is quantum mechanical it's it's it goes
every experience shapes uh our biology
and experience happens in the moment so
your body is changing in the moment
depending on the experience you're
having at a very fundamental level
pleasure pain Joy sorrow eating
breathing digestion metabolism
elimination thinking feeling aspiring
fearing
all every experience
shapes of biology we are the metabolic
product of experience and experience
doesn't happen in isolation it happens
in The Matrix of
relationship
so what people disagree with me is this
whole interpretation I've been attacked
by you know mainstream scientists
but I had been persistent because I'm a
physician and I see people and you know
I'm not sitting in a lab dissecting rats
or doing designing experiments
theoretically
but you see people and as you said
people suffer
and uh you know if you're a physician
that should be your job to address
suffering not be a technician who can
fix everything about the human body know
nothing about the human soul or The
Human Experience this this morning I was
at an event and I had a guy come up to
me after and he said I'm 40 years old
now Stephen
um I'm in a job and I don't like it
it really doesn't like his job that he's
in
um
he's I'd say
trapped as maybe a strong word but he
feels unable to take the leap towards a
life that he feels will fulfill him
um he referenced being scared of what
his friends might say
um and he just there was this almost
this desperation in his face as he spoke
to me he was seeking words of advice
from me
to him to help him out of that situation
of like I'm 40 years old I've got a
partner I've built this life but it's
not resonating with who I am and I just
I could feel the suffering
that's a lot of people that are
listening to this right now they are
that's that's that's so what our social
structures have created and yet you know
the people like Joseph Campbell
oh coined the expression follow your
bliss uh follow your joy follow your
purpose follow your meaning follow your
Dharma you know in Buddhism they said
three things will save you one is
take refuge in the community of
conscious beings
take refuge in a higher purpose and take
refuge in Transcendence
if you do that
your life will be meaningful and meaning
is
what drives us you know there are
actually many Studies by the way recent
studies on what is called the happiness
equation
I'll give it to you
um H is equal to S Plus C plus b so H
stands for happiness is equal to S set
point in the brain the set point in the
brain is
when you look at the situation do you
see an adversity or
an opportunity
how is the set point determined by your
childhood if your parents were
complaining condemning criticizing
playing the victim you will see every
problem every situation has an adversity
condemn complain criticize and play the
victim
on the other hand your parents or your
caretakers or your ecosystem or
relationship when you were growing up
first three four years of life they were
looking at opportunities there were
always you know engaging in
compassionate empathetic conversation
and joy and laughter and celebration
then you'll have a set point for
happiness this set point determines 50
of our daily happiness experience can
this head point be changed yes by
self-awareness by reflective inquiry by
mindfulness by actually knowing that you
have a problem most people don't even
know they have a problem so that's 50
percent
so s
plus C conditions of living
primarily material conditions of living
money
so if you have if you're extremely poor
you will suffer if you're extremely rich
that doesn't guarantee that you'll be
happy
in fact what a lot of rich people do is
they confuse their self-worth with their
net worth
so I I wrote a book before this called
abundance that was inspired by Bob
Marley one of his lyrics where he said
some people are so poor all they have is
money so happiness when it pertains to
money is 10 of your daily experience
if you win the lottery you'll be
ecstatic in the beginning in six months
you'll plateau in one year you'll be
back to your set point
so even if you win the lottery in five
years you might be worse off because now
you're worrying about taxes you want to
put your money in the wherever you know
in the Bahamas or something and you're
it's become your identity money if
you're you know all billionaires money
is their identity they confuse
self-worth with uh net worth
so that's ten percent
now we have 40 remaining that's the
choices we make every day there are two
kinds of choices we make every day once
for personal pleasure
sex alcohol entertainment
movies shopping shopping is the number
one choice for pleasure by the way in
the world that's why we call people
consumers a very ugly word to describe a
stardust being with self-awareness but
does pleasure bring you happiness it
does but it's transient you know if
you're and you have the danger of being
addicted to pleasure if you have an
addictive personality as I did
okay so uh
pleasure brings happiness transiently
there's another choice you can make that
actually is called fulfillment when you
have meaning purpose in your life and if
you know how to make other people happy
by giving them attention which means
listening appreciation noticing their
uniqueness affection letting them know
you care and acceptance radical
acceptance you can't change another
person so you feel better which is what
we're trying to do all the time changing
other people so we feel better
impossible you can't change yourself
even if you try so acceptance
what would you what would you say to
that guy what should I have said to him
in terms of advice
because he did really actually have told
him let's take a day off and let's go
fishing or let's go into you know have a
picnic or let's go to see a comedy
let's go see it just stick discontinue
and
try this
a little moment
of being not doing not thinking not
feeling not speaking I take a week of
Silence every year now I'm taking even
longer so sometimes I'm thinking you
know a month in silence but you know I'm
76 so that's my different stages of life
too
in the hope that that might help him
realize that he's playing the wrong game
or he's thinking about the wrong in the
hope that you know one thing you can do
to alleviate anybody's suffering to some
extent is fully accept them and listen
to them don't give them advice you know
people feel better if you just listen to
them and there's Neuroscience that their
amygdala cools down if you just listen
with deep empathy which means you feel
what another person feels there's some
biology around this you know when you
feel what another person feels and you
deeply listen there's a phenomenon
called limbic resonance your emotional
brain resonates with their brain and
then if you deeply listen to them and
you let them know you care for them
there's another thing that happens it's
called limbic regulation and then the
third step is limbic
revision the neural networks
rebuyer so acceptance affection
appreciation
and attention that's what you do
don't give them advice
people go to therapists to get advice
therapists don't do that they listen
good therapists listen
interesting and in the old traditions
you know that's why people went to
confession
they basically you know revealed their
so-called sins to the priest
and they felt better
one of the things I've read about um
I've heard you talk about is this the
role that affirmations and positive
self-talking
um those kinds of things can have on our
healing to some extent anything mental
is weak this is what I've wondered
because a lot of like you know books and
like Instagram will say look in the
mirror and say nice things yourself or
yeah it doesn't work it's mental mind is
weak you have to go deeper
it's you know to say if you're trying to
force yourself to be positive that's
exasperating that's very stressful
but instead of forcing yourself to be
positive observe your thoughts you know
observe both negative and positive
thoughts and you see that all
experiences by contrast you can't have a
one without the other you know it's like
a pendulum can't swing only in One
Direction it has to swing in two
directions
hot
doesn't is meaningless without cold
pleasure is meaningless without pain Joy
is meaningless without suffering birth
and death are
actually not even opposites
birth and death are opposites life is
the Continuum of birth and death
you can't have one without the other in
biology there's something called
apoptosis program cellular death when
the cell forgets to die
it becomes cancer
that's what it is a cancer cell doesn't
die when it's supposed to normally our
cells are dying constantly so you can be
born again that's the literal meaning of
Born Again
what you think of them
what do you think success is then if
we're stepping away from
this identity which can cause so much
suffering what is for me success is the
progressive realization of worthy goals
number one and where they got that's a
subjective measure so for me that's it
could be taking care of my dog
yes taking care of your dog but if money
is your goal for the sake of making
money then you'll never be happy but if
money is your goal so you can actually
make a difference in people's lives
including your own and your family but
also community in large
that that's a really good
so it's number one Progressive
realization of worthy goals number two
the ability to love and have compassion
and number three actually which is for
me the most important
to always go back to your Creative
Source once you have
this ability to go back to your Creative
Source you will be successful no matter
what
don't be Bamboozled by the hypnosis of
social conditioning don't be in a rush
to conform you know there's studies that
if Gallup I'm on The Advisory Board of
Gallup if you have a house that's fifty
thousand dollars
and you're offered a house that's five
hundred thousand dollars but your
neighbors have million dollar homes you
won't move
you're always comparing yourself to the
other person this is how we are socially
programmed
rush to conform
comparison with others
and you know if your child doesn't
conform then he's not a good student
and I used to um but my son was growing
up he always was reading comic books and
you know engaging in games and sports in
my was very important mathematics and my
wife would constantly complain that he's
not good at school I said wait a minute
we'll he'll
he'll do what he's enjoying let him do
what he's enjoying he ended up creating
a sports company a comic book company
and now he has a very successful
business called the religion of sport
with Tom Brady won five Emmys
wasn't a good student so I said don't
focus on your weaknesses focus on your
strengths and if you have a child who
loves to play tennis it's poor at math
get him a tennis coach and one day he
might get a mathematician to be his
accountant
you when you look forward at the
direction of travel that we're on as a
civilization
what advice do we need now
the most
don't get stuck in melodrama
this whole world is full of drama drama
everything is that sells his drama news
is not news anymore it's opinion and
drama
and all the violence in the world is
drama and you know you read about drama
shooting killing incest well crazy stuff
and we're addicted to trauma actually
and then we complain about it
addicted to trauma or drama yeah but
and what's the cost of being addicted to
trauma and drama suffering
because
because you sacrifice yourself for the
drama or being a conformist does this
mean we have we should like you know I'm
thinking about really my relationship
with technology and social media and
news feeds and stuff well technology is
neutral you know and it's inescapable
it's past part of a revolution if you
don't adapt to technology you'll become
extinct well so it's part of our
Evolution how do we use technology you
know in my field
AI machine learning
Precision diagnosis and even
intervention
I believe Technologies so it's a great
gift
but again technology can destroy the
world too
this is what it means to be human be
humans are very interesting species are
Fall From Grace is exactly what
you know mythical Traditions tell us the
knowledge of Good and Evil we ate the
fruit
it's hard to go through life these days
and not be tempted by drama
it's even someone who you know it's a
process it's a process what is that
process
growth
you know people
some people do grow some people do
evolve and I think
ultimately that is the purpose of our
existence is to keep evolving
do you ever get tempted by drama or
distracted not anymore I used to
I used to I used to engage in debates it
was like
you know big high for me to win a debate
how long ago
well I started in school and I left
debating only recently I was
just five years ago I was debating
Richard Dawkins in in Mexico
and I felt foolish after that
you know so you made the decision not to
debate anymore
not to engage in debate anymore no
because
nobody changes the Mind The Debaters
don't change their mind the audience
doesn't change their mind they in fact
they get reinforced by the opinions they
came with
so if we do want to try and change
people's mind
because see the change if you want peace
in your life be peaceful if you want
love in your life
Give Love whatever you want
engage in that
I think that's the only thing you can't
uh
you have to be the change that you want
to see in others and then people respond
not what do I just say not by what you
do but just by your presence
you've written 93 books as I said
earlier I think this is your 93rd I've
been told this book about living in the
light new book yoga for self-realization
I guess my question you know I I can't
comprehend the concept of writing so
many books I've like I wrote my first
one and then I'm currently writing my
second one and I've been it's just
consuming all of my time and I'm I went
off to Bali if I spent a month there
writing it in I'm sure you enjoyed that
I love it I always get there to write
um it's amazing but my question to you
you know I think this book is fantastic
and I think that we'll talk a little bit
about you're gonna SEC but
your 94th book it's coming this year
it's called Quantum body with the
quantum physicists
so I feel kind of uh
good about that because I've been
talking about that for now since 1988
that's 12 plus 23 that's over 30 years
I've been vilified attacked everything
about that and I realized that people
are territorial you know the physicists
say who the heck is he talking about
quantum physics
the biologists say he's not trained in
biology he's a physician who the heck is
he talking about biology
and yet my experience tells me
that your body is non-local it follows
the principles of quantum mechanics and
now found some
some supporters who know the math
and you know even the body can be
understood
mathematically now I don't know if
you're familiar with this theorem called
girdle's theorem which says it's very
famous theorem and you know girdle was a
German mathematician who was Einstein's
favorite colleague when they they're
both immigrants to America at Princeton
but he came up with the theorem which
says there are theorems in math
that are true but you can't prove them
and their disruptions their
their basically mathematics is platonic
truth describes everything in the
universe
and yet
there are theorems that don't follow
algorithms when a mathematician thinks
of them
he said where did this come from
they don't know they can't even prove it
but it seems intuitively true and if
they follow the theorem it leads to new
creativity
so I think creativity is inherent in the
universe where aspects of that
creativity and with self-awareness we
have sourced to that creativity but that
creativity will never happen
if you don't take time
to
actually incubate
in discontinuity in my life I figured it
out nine steps intended outcome number
one
information gathering number two
information analysis number three
incubation taking time off go to Bali
play golf if you're a republican that's
mystery school for Republicans or
whatever so incubation and that is a
time you settle with uncertainty and
then there's that Eureka experience
Insight so incubation leads to Insight
which is a disruption it's something
totally new new context new relationship
new story
and then if the Insight is accurate then
you're inspired not motivated motivation
is mental inspiration as the word says
in spirit
then you implement it then you integrate
it and then you are a death and a
resurrection these are my nine steps to
creativity I just made them up some
information for intended analysis
information gathering information
analysis incubation Insight inspiration
implementation integration incarnation
I use that for writing my books I can
tell yeah and if you so if you were to
write one last book if I said Deepak you
could write one more book that's it you
can only write one it's going to be your
last ever book
which subject matter would you think was
the most important subject matter to
write that last book about and what
would be the Top Line message of that
book
I hate to use this word it's
misinterpreted but the title would be
enlightenment
explain
what do you mean like why would why
enlightenment
what would the book be about the only
solution ultimately
to know truth with the capital T
you're not your body you're not your
mind
you're not your emotions they're all
um like clouds passing through the sky
you know when when I read some of the
great luminaries
which can shine
our life is a dream we are asleep but
once in a while we wake up enough to
know that
we were sleeping
Buddha when he died he said this
lifetime of us as transient as Autumn
clouds to watch the birth and death of
beings is like looking at the movements
of a dance a lifetime is like a flash of
lightning in the sky rushing by like a
torrent down a steep Mountain as I look
back now my life 76 years it's a dream
but it's been a good dream with a few
nightmares here and there but it's been
a dream and I feel
the only solution is to wake up now you
know when the Buddha was dying people
asked him who are you are you a messiah
are you God your messenger he said none
of the above he said who are you he said
I'm awake finally I think that's our
ultimate Destiny to wake up
what do we need to do to wake up
we need to question our everyday reality
and human constructs they're useful
money is a useful construct latitude
longitude are useful constructs but
there's still constructs they're not
reality what is the source of these
constructs when you get to the source
you realize
that your capacity for creativity is
infinite your capacity for love is
infinite your capacity for compassion is
infinite your capacity for healing is
infinite and ultimately you are infinite
having a dream right now if I made you
prime minister or president of the world
you know if there was one significant
change you could make to lead us more
towards that better future of
Enlightenment I would say an education
that
does not sacrifice self-awareness we
have information overload right now I
don't need information overload I can
Google it or now go to chat GPT or
something like that what I need to know
is who am I
how do you feel about chat GTP chat
it's good I think it's very good and I
think it's unavoidable also I actually
went to a demonstration recently by
Microsoft on something that's coming
soon it's called Prometheus it's Way
Beyond chat GPT
it'll put most of us Physicians out of
business
here because it makes the best diagnosis
gives the best information what happens
then in terms of your purpose and your
meaning well we have more time for
creativity
fundamental creativity to create joy in
the world I think the essential messages
if you're not joyful
you wasted your life
I you know I see entrepreneurs all the
time young guys coming up to me with
amazing ideas but they're talking about
exit strategy before they've started the
business
it's like you know dividing the loot
before there's a train to Rob
but they're already talking and we're
living in a hustle culture you know I
have five exits you keep exiting exiting
exiting and you're still hustling
and you're dying and that's the Final
Exit you're still a hustler
so I say make Joy
and self-understanding self-awareness
the fundamental purpose of existence and
everything else will follow
where's your joy
what is that where do you drive it from
the fact that I exist and I'm aware of
existence that's a Perpetual surprise to
me I was looking at emotions and what's
the healthiest emotion you can have it's
not love it's not compassion
it's not even Joy
it's all
it's Wonder
why do we exist
and why do we have the awareness that we
exist
if
you're perpetually surprised
and full of wonder and joy
you return to innocence
and what we've lost to this world today
is the loss of Innocence
how do I get my innocence back
are you married
I'm in love okay if well when you have a
child you'll see it
you'll see it you know a child is
spontaneous
is in the moment is joyful unless it's
way too hungry but that's a different
situation but it's joyful it is looking
I was the other day I was in a in a
train you know from
Orlando Airport to baggage claim
everybody was stressed in the train
bearing masks Panic to mother on the
phone and full of anxiety and she had a
little baby in the crib and this baby
was looking around in total amazement
finally it caught my eyes
and it gave the most amazing smile and
the whole
the whole room lighted up just looking
at that innocence
we have lost our innocence
and we we take it away from our children
so you know when
children love laughter they love stories
they love surprises you know they love
to play peek-a-boo
when's the last time you were surprised
I can't recall
being surprised so when I feel when I
feel I want some Joy I just look at
children playing is there a way to bring
that Joy back into our lives as a
practice that innocence yes play
um play
not drama as adults play is seen as a
waste of time no please is when you find
creativity and joy
I'm not talking about drama I'm talking
about play
for the sake of play now even Sports has
become competitive
but when you played because you were
playing when a musician is playing
they're not thinking of the end
when you're singing a song you're not
thinking of the ending of the song
you're in the song when you become the
song
when you become
that which you're playing
when the music and the musician become
one when the nor and the known become
one when the Observer and the Observer
come on when the lover and the Beloved
become one that's Transcendence that's
Joy let's play
living in the light yoga for
self-realization this is your fourth
phase of life and you're into your
self-realization phase
do you know the book The Body holds the
score
there's a lot of similarities between
obviously your philosophy and that yes
that that book about how and I was Rick
because you know I've I start I think
everything as a skeptic so breath work
and a lot of spiritual things I start as
an ultimate skeptic I need science I
need evidence I need proof and as I read
through that book and watched some
videos of that one of the things that
it's proven is phenomenal for your
mental well-being is things like acting
yoga they talk about psychedelics and
things like that as well but one
wouldn't assume that there's a profound
amount of scientific evidence that yoga
and acting
have really positive mental health
implications correct
why is Yoga so good for us as humans
yoga means Union Union with yourself and
yoga has eight limbs as they're talking
about in this book and ultimately all
those book eight limbs are meant to
give you only one Insight you and the
universe
are made of awareness you're not made of
energy you're not made of matter
you're not made of information you're
made of awareness awareness is non-local
fundamental not subject to birth and
death infinite and formless
so befriend your non-local formless self
you know again I go back to poetry
acting is great poetry is even better
rabindranath tagore one of my favorite
poets said in this Playhouse of infinite
forms I got sight of the formless
and so my
life was blessed
befriend the formless
and then the forms will be seen as
expressions of the formless
without the form list there is no form
is the morphing of the formless into
space-time and causality this theater of
space time and causality
where we are playing as avatars
that is something for me to think about
tonight
um
it's become abundantly clear to me over
the last I don't know
um over the last couple of years in
particular as
um more people know who I am because of
this podcast and I do teach them to
stuff on TV that you can cause yourself
such a tremendous amount of suffering by
getting more and more attached to your
avatar and like your avatar becoming
more of a defined thing and I think I've
spent a lot of my definitely the last
two and a half years trying to resist as
much as I can this temptation of
becoming my avatar and doing that on a
practical level I thought you know well
resist labels Steve so don't be anything
don't like in terms of your bio you know
your your professional bio don't be
those things just you're 32 right 30 30.
wow but that's pretty young to have that
awareness yeah because I could see how I
could cause myself a ton of suffering
and build a life which wasn't really Who
I Am by being a social media CEO for
example success at an early age yeah you
confuse your celebrity with yourself
yeah
outside of me just like saying to myself
okay I'm gonna write books and I'm gonna
do this theater and we do this music
show and I DJ Now and I do all these
other bits and pieces I was in
psychedelics for a while with um a Thai
Life Sciences as a creative director and
an investor and outside of me doing just
doing lots of stuff which is I thought
was the antidote to not to resisting my
label
you're telling me that the real antidote
to resisting my label is like a higher
sense of Enlightenment right I would
suggest a book for you yeah at your
stage you're trying to be useful it's
called the wisdom of insecurity
interesting by Alan Watts the more you
embraced in security and
unpredictability the more access you'll
have to the unknown
and the unknown is the source of all
creativity the known as the prison of
the past
we have a closing tradition on this
it's funny
podcast where the last guest asks a
question for the next guest
because what the question is I'll show
you you're the first person to ever see
that question can you see it
what is my biggest insecurity
I'm reminded
of
a cartoon I saw
of a grave site
and there was a sign
on the grave site and said
to whoever was standing by the gravesite
where you are I was
where I am you will be
so embrace
the idea of death
and if you do it you'll see it's death
that makes life possible
because death is creativity have you
struggled with the idea of death all my
life since six years
and that reared its head to some degree
when your parents passed yes
and now I'm a stage where I'm embracing
it totally how did that impact you
losing your parents
as someone that's been
sensitive and insecure about it I would
say grief sadness
longing
but our longing can be the way too
how long ago was that that you lost your
parents oh my parents only in the last
20 years
but grandfather with whom I lived in the
first few years of my life
he was like a parent my grandparents
were my parents because my my parents
were in England at that time and I was
I and my brother were left with our
grandparents who brought us up
and that by the way was a big that fear
of Abandonment also is a driver
the fear of Abandonment is a driver and
there is no cure for that other than
don't think about yourself all the time
anytime you by the way you are suffering
ask yourself who am I thinking about
if you're thinking about your avatar
it's very true Deepak thank you so much
thank you for having me this was one of
the best conversations I've had oh thank
you so much that's a huge honor you you
really are um you've been a someone that
I followed from from afar but have had
tremendous admiration for and everyone
that I've encountered that's encountered
you well has been so you know we have
mutual friends with yeah we're sort of
in business together in many respects
through the healing actually they're
lovely people yeah um and it's been an
honor that you would come here and spend
some time with me today and it's been my
privilege thank you thank you so much
Deepak thank you
as you might know the show's now
sponsored by Airbnb absolutely love
Airbnb always have always been a you
know saved my life on so many occasions
and my team when we first got in touch
with Airbnb were talking about how most
people don't realize that their place
where they currently live could become
an Airbnb and I guess the second
question there is how much could your
place be worth and it turns out you
could be sitting on an Airbnb gold mine
without even knowing it some people
Airbnb their entire homes when they're
away that's what I did in New York
whenever I left New York my place was on
Airbnb and people rented it out
sometimes for a day sometimes for two
days sometimes for a week and it's a
great way to cover some of the bills
while you're away so whether you're
looking to go on holiday or you just
want some extra cash for bills or you
want to buy something nice for a
valentine that you love whatever it
might be head over to airbnb.com UK host
and you can find out how much your
current property where you live can earn
while you're not there I suspect it
might blow your mind because it
certainly blew mine
[Music]
oh
foreign